 Daun Costa Yeah. 0:0:0.-410 --> 0:0:0. 790 Deanna Davies Uh, hi synthia. Deanna Davies It. Cynthia Egbunonu Hello I made it. Deanna Davies Are you are you on your cell phone? Cynthia Egbunonu No, no my. Deanna Davies Ohh no, you're not now OK. Cynthia Egbunonu No, my I don't know what happened. My power went off and then it took like 5 minutes or more for my Internet to come back on and. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah, but I'm. I'm here now. Good to see you, Don Veronica. Daun Costa Hello. Let's see you. Cynthia Egbunonu Louis. Louis Savard Hello. Hello. Cynthia Egbunonu Hello. Cynthia Egbunonu I think I don't know if Ohh Anne. Ohh the two ends are here and an end. Lindsay, Anne Hello. Deanna Davies I I thought Pete in the other meeting. So. So it may take a little bit. I'll. I'll monitor my emails. Cynthia Egbunonu OK. Deanna Davies Just in case. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright, so I did miss quite a bit of what Louise and Michael was saying. I came in kind of, as Michael was, wrap wrapping up and I think he had talked about three kinds of students that we should keep in mind. Cynthia Egbunonu So I don't know if somebody wants to just kind of give us an overview of what that is and and then we'll get right into our agenda for today. Veronica Dogbegah I took. Cynthia Egbunonu You took notes. Veronica Dogbegah I hope have chit it well, he said that the college has traditionally served student from high school and University of colleges, but there is a whole other population that the school has not focused on that could be tapped and that population is already in the labor market and they're probably looking at upgrade or to advance their career. Then he also said that there is a change in population of students. Veronica Dogbegah Which is more 50% more international? Veronica Dogbegah In 50% local, which is going to which is impacting the which is going to impact the market as well as. Veronica Dogbegah How the program is structured, I think those are the ones that I captured. I don't know if there was a third one was there. Cynthia Egbunonu Uh, I think you kind of said it cause Anne also put it in the chat. International students, students coming in after high school and students who have finished university and want to. Cynthia Egbunonu You know, get an additional certification. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright, thank you so much. Cynthia Egbunonu Umm. And so maybe what we can do next is like Louise mentioned, we can all put our names and the industry or organization that we represent for the purposes of the minute. That will be great. Cynthia Egbunonu OK. I'd like to see Pete is in welcome. Pete, how are you doing? Pete Grieve Thank you. It says my camera is not able to connect on this one. Maybe I'm just too ugly for you people. Pete Grieve Yeah. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh my goodness. No you're not. Pete Grieve Yeah. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh dear. Cynthia Egbunonu OK. Cynthia Egbunonu So we'll get right into the agenda and just gonna pull it up here. Cynthia Egbunonu I'm looking at it. Cynthia Egbunonu Earlier. Cynthia Egbunonu OK, so welcome everybody. It's always a pleasure to have each one of you here. Cynthia Egbunonu Umm. And so today we are meeting for the Fall Program Advisory Committee meeting and I'm sure there's a lot of things that Deanna ones to share with us with regards to this program and what's been going on with the with the students. And so we're really looking forward to that. So before we move forward, can we get you know two people to motion the approval of the agenda and somebody one person to motion and the other person. Cynthia Egbunonu To to 2nd so that we can then move on to the approval of the last minute and I'm. I hope everybody got the agenda. Cynthia Egbunonu Otherwise, I can share my screen. Cynthia Egbunonu OK, so can I get some a person to motion the agenda? Pete Grieve Thanks. Cynthia Egbunonu Thank you, Anne and Pete. Seconds. That motion. Awesome. Thank you. Veronica Dogbegah So one minute. Second who? Veronica Dogbegah First ohh. Cynthia Egbunonu An M and envy. Cynthia Egbunonu Motioned and Pete Grieve. Cynthia Egbunonu Supported the motion. Cynthia Egbunonu OK, so now moving on to the minutes of the last meeting again, thank you so much to Veronica for volunteering to record the Minutes as she's doing again today. And she did send that out, I think 2 weeks ago or so. So can I get you know? Cynthia Egbunonu One present emotion and another to also support the motion for approval of the Minutes from the last meeting. Cynthia Egbunonu OK, so Pete is. Cynthia Egbunonu Motioning and Don is supporting that motion. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for that. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright, so moving on to the next agenda on here with regards to business arising from the Minutes, there's no business arising at this point that we identified. So we'll move on to the next item on the agenda which is update on the program metrics. And so I'll pass that on to Deanna. Pete Grieve But. Deanna Davies Thank you so very much. It's so lovely to see all of you again. It's hard to believe that we're already in the fall. I thought perhaps maybe for today's update, I give you a few visuals because. Deanna Davies And because it's just too good not to share, so I'm going to just confirm, can you all see my screen here? Deanna Davies Yes, alright. So fall 2022 has continued to surprise us. Deanna Davies As we continue to grow, as we continue to adopt and adapt a very quick reminder to to many of you, this was our first time fully back in person. So back in the spring we had only one or two this time around what we did is we had over 50% of our programs executed in person. It's one thing as an adjustment to faculty, it's a. Deanna Davies Huge thing as an adjustment to the students, so I'm going to allude to that as we move forward, but I also encourage we have a a few people that are on our PAC that are currently in the classroom as well. And I do encourage you both Veronica and Don, if you wanna add, please feel free to do so. Deanna Davies No. So we have currently one full time faculty member, as you do know that is that is myself we have 28 part time faculty now in Kingston and in Cornwall in January of 2023 we will have an additional team member that's going to be in Cornwall on a full time basis. I think this is really important for me to be able to highlight for you because this program continues to grow. Deanna Davies And as we put the lens of inclusivity. Deanna Davies And belonging. Deanna Davies I want to always make sure that our students feel connected. We have been so, so very fortunate since the infancy of this program, which has now been almost five years. It's hard to believe, isn't it? Deanna Davies We've always had such dedicated faculty members. Deanna Davies But just like any business, as we start to grow, they're becomes fragmented, communication, fragmented opportunities and that is something that we really don't want to lose as we move forward in this program. So things that are occurring in this program, where are we at with the students because the students are why we're here. Deanna Davies So right now we are 100% international. Deanna Davies In Cornwall we have 35 L ones. Deanna Davies That now are signed up. As you all know, every every semester on the 4th week I sign everybody up for their chapter membership that are part of the Ottawa chapter PMI. Deanna Davies 26 are in L2 for total is 61 students in Cornwall, representing the project management program right now in Kingston we have 35 L ones and I did something different which I did talk to you all about in the spring. I actually signed up the Kingston. Deanna Davies With the Durham Highland chapter and the rationale there is so we can continue to maximize our exposure in both of these chapters and our influence there as well. After after speaking to a few of our alumni. Deanna Davies Many of them stayed on board and we actually have a couple that are incredibly active with the Durham chapter. Deanna Davies Which is so exciting. Deanna Davies In the L twos, 35 are also part of the Ottawa chapter, so that was in the spring, I said in the fall we were gonna be changing. That's why the L twos in total. In Kingston we have 72 PM students. So currently we have 133 students that are enrolled in our program. Please keep in mind we have cat this program. Deanna Davies As a 25 per classroom to maintain the integrity. Deanna Davies And the depth that we're able to provide for these students. Deanna Davies So what does this look like for the winter? Will the winter numbers are looking strong? Deanna Davies We're still very weak in the domestic. We're open to domestic, but we'll talk about that a little bit later. So right now for winter L ones, we're looking at 30 students. The numbers are lower. Deanna Davies In Kingston, we're at capacity. Deanna Davies With the with 52 students that are enrolled. Deanna Davies And one domestic, ironically, is 1 domestic and each. Deanna Davies In the winter of 2023, we will have 82 L 163L2 for a total of 145 project management students. Deanna Davies I didn't have time to go back and look at with that increased percentages since the first year. Deanna Davies And I know Louis and Cynthia, you were you were teaching in that first year. So I know that it's been significant. Louis Savard I can tell your DNA was 29. Deanna Davies 29 yeah, and the Kingston had 25, I think actually no, we had 32. I think in that one class. Deanna Davies And then 25. Deanna Davies Inclusivity. This year I wanted to really take a new lens and it's not that it's new, but I wanted to highlight this in making sure that we had inclusivity and belonging as a lens. And so just like many other professors, and I know that being full time, I can dedicate a little bit more time to being able to do this. We tried to do field trips. Deanna Davies We also tried to get them outside of the classroom with activities and I have so many professors that have reported back with things that they have done with their students. Deanna Davies One of the things that a lot of us had forgotten about is classroom management going back into person. Deanna Davies Some students I've been very reluctant and others are just embracing and that it was important for us to acknowledge in the classroom. Deanna Davies Guest speakers. I'm at the end of the year. I will have a tally of all the different guest speakers that the professors have been bringing in, including myself. This enhances our partnerships. This enhances our ability for outreach, for new partnerships in the future. This picture in particular was with darn account construction and Sandy, who's the project manager. She also was a counselor here in Kingston. And so many of the students, these are the ones that stuck around for the picture, came down and we talked about the waterfront. Deanna Davies Development that was occurring. Deanna Davies Two big events that happened this fall. If you can recall, last year I partnered with Durham College and as well with four different institutions around the globe. Deanna Davies This year we decided to come back together. Deanna Davies This year, we focused on the SDG's, just like we do in our capstone. And so on November the 1st. Deanna Davies We had our second working around the world event. Deanna Davies So keeping in mind this was an event that was within 24 hours. Deanna Davies The project started off in Jakarta. Deanna Davies Then was passed over to Holland after four hours, then from Holland, it was passed over to South Africa. Deanna Davies And then so South Africa, it was passed over to Kingston. Deanna Davies And Cornwall Saint Lawrence College and Durham. Deanna Davies Our students were paired. Deanna Davies With students from Durham region. Deanna Davies So that was the first part. That was the team, the Canadian team. Deanna Davies We had such positive feedback once again this year. The event didn't go without glitches. It always does when it's a hybrid event. Deanna Davies So we had students that we hosted in the hub, the innovation hub in Kingston and in Cornwall in a couple of rooms. And these are some pictures. So at the beginning they did not ideation that was collective with Durham. So they learned with Durham and then the second time, the second hour, we went directly into the major event, 30 students participated from Kingston and Cornwall ones, L Twos. The invitation went out to everybody. Deanna Davies And some stayed in person most when in person, and some stayed from the comfort of their home, working with the other teams. Deanna Davies So here's the marriages of Kingston. Deanna Davies And here are some images of Cornwall as well. Deanna Davies So once again, these students really got the opportunity to connect. Some of them were actually paired. So when we blended the teams, I put a Cornwall student and a Kingston student, and then the two Durham students, the Durham students were IBM students, international business students. So we gave them a real unique sense of new connections with one another or ones. So this picture here, the L ones and the L twos got to blend together, which we've never had that before. Deanna Davies The second one is an event that happened this past weekend. Deanna Davies So for many of you, you may remember in the spring update I told you about a partnership that I had with the SDG labs of Canada. Deanna Davies That partnership was incredible. We had four weeks in the project Capstone. Deanna Davies Course where they came in and they helped to clarify the importance of localization and how do you boost impact? Deanna Davies And so it was incredible. Deanna Davies However, right after that, the membership to this institution. Deanna Davies Didn't exist, so over the summer time I I met with PMI Education sector section. Sorry. And then also the SDG labs of Canada and the PMI education sector came back and said they would happily sponsor an event for us. Deanna Davies And so I couldn't do it back in the classroom, but because I wanted that inclusivity not just to practice it just in Kingston. I wanted everyone. So what we did is we created an event that was called the SLC projects for impact. Deanna Davies I built the framework in the partnership. Deanna Davies Went to her associate Dean and of course he supported it wholeheartedly. Deanna Davies And then when the students came back to the classroom. Deanna Davies The El choose when they were getting to choose which projects they were going to do. One team was awarded this project so this now became. Deanna Davies And event. Deanna Davies Symposium by students for students. Deanna Davies I was there sponsor, so I worked with them all the way through. Deanna Davies And it was incredible. Deanna Davies In total, we had 21 students from Cornwall. We put the we we sent a bus and the bus brought them here. Deanna Davies They had a lot of fun in the bus. I do have bus pictures. Deanna Davies We had one faculty member from Cornwall joined them. Deanna Davies He was on the bus with them. Deanna Davies We had 34 students from Kingston. Deanna Davies And we have 3 faculty members, including. Deanna Davies Synthia, who came to represent PAC. I forgot to put that one up there. Deanna Davies We had 54 students in attendance and four faculty members in attendance. Deanna Davies PMI national came. Deanna Davies PMI from Durham Region came PMI from Ottawa underway came as well. Deanna Davies The day was full. Deanna Davies With the day was full of interaction. Deanna Davies And then at the end, sorry. At lunch hour, we brought in alumni. Deanna Davies Thank you. Veronica was one of them. Deanna Davies And the alumni had a panel. Deanna Davies And they talked about. Deanna Davies Their capstone projects and they talked also about the program. Deanna Davies It was incredible. Deanna Davies There was so much interaction, so much opportunity, almost too much of a jam packed agenda. Right now we're doing, we're doing a program review. Deanna Davies Our lessons learned. Deanna Davies Enclosure. Deanna Davies So that just happened this past Saturday. Here are some pictures. Deanna Davies Of the activities. Deanna Davies So as you can see, it was a busy day. This was hosted also by the students. It was funny because they were like, well, you're gonna be our MC, aren't you? And I said, absolutely not even our land acknowledgement was done by one of our alumni. Deanna Davies Who is proudly representing the indigenous peoples? Deanna Davies And he did the opening and the land acknowledgement. Deanna Davies It was incredible and he stayed and then he went on the panel as well, and he participated in the day so. Deanna Davies You this is the event I you know, I do want to pass on. I know Don was there. Veronica was there. And Cynthia? You popped in as well. Did you have anything you wanted to add to that? Deanna Davies Yeah. Daun Costa Just that I hope, and that partnership can keep going. That was such an immersive learning experience, not only for myself, so much gratitude for participating, by the way, but for the students and the conversation. And yeah, just such a great event well done. Deanna Davies Thank you. Deanna Davies So in closing, what's next? Deanna Davies Next would be that are projects for impact could happen twice a year. I would love to be able to offer it in the spring and in the fall term. Deanna Davies And then strategically, that should capture most of our students or at least give them that opportunity to participate. So we will grow it. We kept it condense, but we don't want it too big because it's very, very interactive. Deanna Davies Umm. Deanna Davies I knew PMI and industry partnerships. I wanna continue to grow that. Deanna Davies The Ontario Project Management competition should be making their announcement anytime now and that announcement will state. Deanna Davies That we're going live in person. Deanna Davies This will be the first time for us as a team that will have that opportunity. So I don't know what that's going to look like, but it's pretty exciting. We've already got some teens starting to build now and our teams that just finished their projects will qualify also. So we may need another bus, Patrick. Deanna Davies And then last but not least, that program review, as you all know, we did a program review. Deanna Davies Um back almost three years ago now. It's hard to believe of a COVID. And So what we're doing now is we're doing in true agile format where we're adopting and adapting, and we're looking back and we're adjusting. So Patrick has been very supportive in some of the changes that we know that we need to be making as well. When PMI came on the weekend, one of the representatives from Canada actually represents the education programs. So we are moving forward with our creditation. Deanna Davies As you all know, that is something that I think this this whole group was very excited about and I too am very passionate about. So we will be moving forward with that and that can take anywhere from 12 months to 18 months. So that's where we are at this point in time. Does anyone have any questions at all? Deanna Davies Welcome, Patrick. I see you're. You're in the room. So I I am finished on my part and I will pass it back to you, Cynthia. Cynthia Egbunonu Well, thank you so much. Deanna. This is amazing. Amazing, amazing. The work that's. Cynthia Egbunonu That you have facilitated in this program for the students over the last year and and just seeing all the the the work that has already been done just the semester, that's amazing. And I was quite proud when I popped in really briefly on Saturday to see the immersive. Cynthia Egbunonu Nature of the event and you know, like the students were quite engaged and like, really, really into it and and and that was so, so, so, so good to see again those real life experiences will help the students and prepare them really well as they move into the workforce and, you know, give them the confidence that they need as well. So so fantastic work. And I'm also very excited. Cynthia Egbunonu To hear that you are also getting a full time faculty in Cornwall, that would also help you with the with the amazing work that you are doing. So really really grateful to also hear that because you've been carrying a lot and and I don't know how many people saw a video that Deanna posted on LinkedIn about two weeks ago from her students and you know how they basically surprised her with some gifts and some loving. Cynthia Egbunonu Words and and that definitely goes to show the amount of passion, energy and heart that the Anna always puts into not just the program itself, not just the content, not just the faculty, but also the students. Like, you know, making sure and for for this being international students, you know, like I don't know, you've just been able to connect with this students in a way that I haven't seen in a while. So so again, thank you Deanna for for the great work. And thank you for leading. Cynthia Egbunonu Every one of the faculty, the those who are, you know, partial load part time or teaching one course always, always a pleasure to hear. Lots of great feedback from them. So I don't know if anybody else wants to share anything. I know and Davies types in the chat. Amazing. When you were presenting. So again that's really, really great. Anybody else wants to add anything before we. Cynthia Egbunonu Gave the associate Dean the floor to maybe say something. Cynthia Egbunonu All right, there's nobody. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh Veronica go. Veronica Dogbegah No, no, no, just great work. To Deanna, I know that's all it was. A good event. It was really impactful, very engaging. And she just continues to amaze us. OK. Cynthia Egbunonu Welcome. Cynthia Egbunonu Thank you. Alright. I will pass it over to you, Patrick. I don't know if you have something that you wanna share. If you don't, then we'll just move on to our agenda. But I wanted to give you the opportunity to say a few words. Patrick Egbunonu Uh, thank you, Cynthia. I wanna start by saying again, big thank you to this this committee. Thank you for everything that you do and and for your presence and for, for helping continue to shape our programming and shape the experiences that our students have. I also want to say a big thank you to Deanna for her leadership. Patrick Egbunonu I wasn't here when she was presenting, but I'm I'm 100% sure that that I don't have to say any additional thing. Patrick Egbunonu You know, knowing how passionate Deanna is for this program and and how very detail oriented and meticulous she is when it when it comes to a fresh related to this program, I'm very excited that we're we're we're currently hiring and recruiting for full time faculty and Cornwall really excited about that and looking forward to seeing the new person start in the new Year. Also excited about some of the ideas and partnerships in the program that we're looking at. Patrick Egbunonu 2023 I think it's gonna be a great gift for everyone of us, but thank you very much again. I'll. I'll be here for a couple of minutes and then I'll jump off and and move on to the next park. Cynthia Egbunonu Well, thank you so much, Patrick. And also on behalf of Deanna and the program. Thank you for your continued support for all the programs and projects and initiatives and ideas that Deanna brings forth, whether from this program or from you know just from the industry as well. So thank you. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright, so we'll move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the industry discussions. And So what what we are hoping to do right now is to facilitate a a session where we again we've done this before, but it's really soliciting your ideas and thoughts on what we think that the workplace is looking like that maybe because what happens is as we provide all of this feedback. Cynthia Egbunonu Deanna takes it back and sees you know how we can, how they ensure that it's infused into the program, right and into the education that's provided to the students. So we're gonna be looking at what's changing in the workplace. What are some things that we wanna? Cynthia Egbunonu You know, make sure that we that's where looking at from whether it's from new skills or competencies or any opportunities that you know that the the program should also be looking at for the students. So what Deanna has done is she's posted a link, you know, somewhere where we can put in a word and it's called mental. Nita, I just heard about it today. So. Cynthia Egbunonu But we can go in, put in a word. And what what would happen in the background is it builds a world, a world cloud, I believe. Cynthia Egbunonu OK, so the Ana is gonna show it. So as you put in words, it's gonna start building. And the more people put stuff in, then you're gonna see it get bigger and bigger. And all of that. So let's go ahead and just put in some phrases. Or even if you if it's a sentence you want to put in or a word on what you're thinking about, what you think we should be focused on or the program should be also embedded into the training for the students. Cynthia Egbunonu That would be great. Thank you for all those who have already put stuff in. I'm gonna go in and put mine as well. So we'll we'll take about. Cynthia Egbunonu 3 to 5 minutes to do that. Cynthia Egbunonu And then and then we'll we'll have some discussions around it. Louis Savard I'm I wonder, Cynthia, if I? Louis Savard If I can show something very quickly after everybody's done something very interesting and and just pull this story, my time is a little bit limited. I have another maybe 1520 minutes and then I have to join another meeting if that's OK. If I can take a few minutes. Cynthia Egbunonu Yes, please, absolutely. Louis Savard Awesome. So I just finished a course municipal diploma, municipal management at the end of the course you have to write a report and the report that I wrote is about how municipalities are forgetting about a big percentage of employees where you come in as an entry level and then then your next step is supervisory. You're jumping to management, right? That's the musical way, right? You come in, you become a supervisor or manager, you retire. Louis Savard Right. But between entry level and supervisor, there's a whole cross section of employees and individuals that have no intentions of getting into management. Louis Savard Right. So how do you allow them to progress professionally to maybe a more specialist role than a maybe a coordinator role where you still take on more responsibilities but you do not have to manage people? Louis Savard Umm, I had to do a pretty sort of. Louis Savard Your literature review and the interesting part, and I don't know if I'll be able to showcase this properly. Louis Savard But if you look at know if you know if it's going to see, see this anyway, maybe not. It's kind of hard, I know if you can read the the skill sets so it's really blurry. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah. Louis Savard It's pretty blurry, I think so. Alright, so for entry level skill sets it's all technical, right? Business domain technical skills, help desk support, things like that. As you move on to mid level skills #1, #2, #5, #6 and #10 tied twice this project management. Louis Savard When you get into critical skills, numbers 23469. Louis Savard Our project management. Louis Savard Right and. Louis Savard So so there's a shift into thinking that to progress in a technical career, which is, you know, I mean it. So the present a technical career, you just need to get better at solving problems or you need to get better at knowing Microsoft or whatever the case is, right. There's a shift happening. I mean, this is this particular one here is data from 2008. So it is dated and I can't find the other one I found from 2019 which said the same thing, except there was even more in the top 10. Louis Savard And what what I'm seeing in my role, what I'm seeing across the IT industry is we don't necessarily need project managers, right, because we're not, we don't develop anything. We support a lot of people, right. But what we do need, and that's why I put on the wordle stakeholder management and communication. Louis Savard IT people, let's face it, sometimes have a hard time talking to people, but they're in charge of running a project or they're in charge of upgrading this and upgrading that, right? So in terms of where this program? Louis Savard I'm could expand to into the micro credentials if I can use that term down the road is pulling out those important skill sets, stakeholder management, communication. Louis Savard Planning right there, just those and then make those. Louis Savard Be specific certificate program rather than a diploma program because I think what I think one of the reasons why we're seeing this as still pretty much 100% international is you have people coming in. Louis Savard That this is what they want to do, right? And we have a very, very good recruitment team. Let's face it, they are fantastic, right? But if I'm living in, let's say, Cornwall or even Eastern Ontario, I'll be honest, sent Lawrence College. And this course is not top of mind for project management. I'm going to look at Spratt scope of business as Carlton because it's only gonna be a couple of weekends for me to obtain the information that I need. I can't commit full time. I'm working. Louis Savard Right. And I think when you saw that, we talked about the the group of people that that are not just high schools moving into college, right, the already employed people. Louis Savard If you were able to package that into small digestible bits. Louis Savard I think you're gonna see your domestic numbers skyrocket and not just. Louis Savard You know, non experienced people. I'm talking. You're gonna get experienced professionals that want to come in and say, hey, I I have to deliver this project. I have to work on this project. I don't know how to talk to people. How do I manage it difficult people, stakeholder management 101. Louis Savard Right, I think that's. Louis Savard That's is what's going to make this already stellar program, whatever the word, is above stellar, right? That's what it is. So that's that's my bit, but I just thought I'd share that. It was really interesting to me that in the IT world and the support world, not the development world and the support world, even here, it's recognizing that if you want to progress, you need project management skills. Cynthia Egbunonu Wow. Amazing. Thank you so much, Louis. Cynthia Egbunonu That's uh, that's amazing. And and I think. Cynthia Egbunonu I don't think that will be something that's new for many of us, you know, but it's reinforces, you know, a lot of what we we know and what we think as well. So. So thank you. Thank you so much for sharing that. I think and I love how you how you put it, you know especially with the micro credentials and you know as we as we think about how this program is marketed towards domestic students as well, especially those who are. Cynthia Egbunonu Working full time, so thank you again. Cynthia Egbunonu Pete. Pete Grieve Thanks. Thanks Cynthia and Louis. I really appreciate what you what you presented to. As Cynthia said, it's something that those of us of a mature ish age kind of take for granted there. But I'm seeing that with the younger generation there, they really have problems when especially when it comes to communication. Just a short story that I was talking with a program manager that I worked with. Pete Grieve She said that her kids, who are in their late teens there, actually are petrified of picking up the phone and phoning a friend's landline in case they don't actually get the friend to answer. They don't know how, they're not comfortable being able to actually do something simple as ask for a particular person, so I think there is a lot of challenges when it comes to communications with this newer generation. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh yes. Pete Grieve Umm. Pete Grieve OK. Pete Grieve Right. Cynthia Egbunonu I completely agree, especially with, you know, the generation. What what do they call them now? I think they call them the digital generation or the phone generation or something. Yeah, absolutely. It's because they don't communicate. They communicate over devices and so. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah. Cynthia Egbunonu No. Pete Grieve Yeah, they're so used to texting that they don't even phone each other cell phone like they'll text and and that's it. So I when I was, when I'm teaching my class, I'm trying to explain to them that you've got upwards of three or four different generations in the workforce and you have to be comfortable communicating to all different levels, including old people like me. Cynthia Egbunonu Yes, absolutely. Thank you so much. Cynthia Egbunonu Anne. Van Herpt, Ann M. I totally agree with what you just said because I have three daughters and exactly what you said they don't want to talk to anyone. They wanna text or send an e-mail to book an appointment or whatever that face to face old school. We used to always go like this when you wanted to talk to someone. Now you go like this, right? But we got into a very large discretion over Thanksgiving weekend because. Van Herpt, Ann M. The argument that I that I brought forward was. Van Herpt, Ann M. You know you don't want to pick up the phone and talk to someone, yet you'll be very vocal when there's something going wrong in the world, which I love. Van Herpt, Ann M. But the normal routine things that we do picking up the phone and actually having a conversation with someone they shy away so from so it's it's it's very different from when I grew up where it was. You just sat and you didn't vocalize anything about anybody that you would never talk back to a teacher. You would never even if the teacher was completely wrong, you would never approach them. You would just take that position of authority and it's just flipped now. Van Herpt, Ann M. Which I love because the generation is actually speaking out against wrongs and they're speaking out. But that whole face to face communication is certainly lost. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. Cynthia Egbunonu Louis. Louis Savard Yes, thank you. I mean, I'm just gonna echo much of the same, but I have a team of of seven. And the way that we are set up for our support desks because of COVID, we were put into what we call the VIP concourse. But it's literally just a corridor, right? That's all. So we have cubicles on each side and even from cubicle to cubicle, nobody rolls back and says, hey, have you ever seen this? Louis Savard It's a teams message. Louis Savard Right. And then and then if the reply is verbal and they're reply is another teams message it's it's mind boggling and I don't know if it's an insecurity or or what it is, but it's that is quite interesting to me. And the other thing too that I think. Louis Savard As educators, as professionals, I think we all have to be on the lookout for. Louis Savard It is a text speak. Cynthia Egbunonu Hmm. Louis Savard Right. And I mean, I have a 16 year old and and for him to tell me I'm going somewhere tomorrow. It's I get I'm going somewhere TMR or yes, I know it's the why IK, what is this right. And I know in the classroom you sort of have to break that and you have to professional writing but. Louis Savard And I would suggest that 10 years from now, those might even exactly right, those might actually be accepted in the workforce. So I think we have to be on the lookout for the opportunity to either correct or embrace whichever way it is. But it's changing, it's coming. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh, absolutely Veronica. Veronica Dogbegah Uh, yes, I was just trying to echo what everyone said. UM. Veronica Dogbegah One of the things that I have seen, especially in my workplace, been in tech in the past, that there used to be a lot of documentation and so I put in there agile communication, a communication in the workplace has been broken down so much now that it's just. Veronica Dogbegah Umm. Veronica Dogbegah Just slacking someone and say I wanna have a call with you. I want to talk to you. I've gone with the days where we have to put in documentation, send e-mail. There has to be proved and I see that my manager worked. Really enforces that a lot. It's just pick up the phone and call. Send a message to someone and just have a quick slack. Harder right. And something that huddle has the slack has is the harder way. You don't have to turn on your camera but you can just do audio and that has increased a lot of collaboration. Just picking up. Veronica Dogbegah The funny talking to someone last week got me contacts that I wouldn't have even got it right. So there's a whole lot of focus on Asia. Communication is one of the things that I tried teaching in class that when you join a new workplace, scheduled meetings with people that you don't know gets to see them talk, say hi to them because a lot of them the postcode area is going into that. That's the only thing that is fostering high collaboration within a hybrid team or remote team. Cynthia Egbunonu Wow, thank you. And thank you for for pointing that out. And please if anybody else wants to speak to any of the points that you put in there, that would be that would be great as well. But you know again going back to that whole messaging and communication I have, you know, a teenage boy and an almost teenage daughter and we're having this conversation now because they can't spell this. Children cannot spell for the life of them. They they depend on autocorrect. Cynthia Egbunonu You know, for everything like it is, it is the most bizarre thing, like, and they don't even wanna spend the time perfecting their writing skills because it's like, what's the use, you know? And maybe we're moving beyond writing now, maybe we're moving beyond learning how to type appropriately, right, rather than using your your. Cynthia Egbunonu Index fingers on everything on your thumb and everything but one thing I'm also fine. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh dear one thing I'm also finding is you know and I spoke about this at the conference that I I presented at in September is the fact that we currently right now have 5 generations in the workforce, right. So we have you know from Jen Z's to all the way to the baby, the people, those before the baby boomers, right and and so we've got 5 generations in the workplace and we need to learn how to interact and all of those different generations. Cynthia Egbunonu Even though these are generalizations, they interact in different ways, and so if we're gonna, you know, as we look at the workforce of the future, as we are, release the students into the future, our workplaces where they're gonna lead projects, let's say they have different people from different generations in their projects, how are they gonna communicate? You need varying forms of communication. You need to be able to have those face to face. You need to be able to have those, you know. Cynthia Egbunonu Umm. Slacks. You need to be able to have those huddles really quick. Huddles. You need to like, and you cannot over communicate. One of my leaders at work said you have to communicate something 23 times. I don't know where he got the 23 number, but he said 23 times before it sticks. Right and and. And so for me, that's really, really impactful, Louis. Louis Savard Yes, thank you. I'm. I'm just gonna one more thing and then I'm. I'm fortunate I'm gonna have to to the part. I I really apologize because this is fantastic community conversation. Louis Savard You know, kids don't know how to write. You know what's even more troubling is they can't sign their name. Louis Savard Discursive has gone so most schools only been three teach cursive writing anymore, so they can't even sign their name. But that's not what I want to say on the wordle. I put up virtual analysis and what I mean by that is in the past we've used teleconferencing, phone conference, video conference for project updates for refining somethings where you where we can. Louis Savard But what Corbyn's precipitated is that I think gone are probably the days of, hey, I'm gonna go do a project in the Netherlands. I'm getting on a plane and I'm going over there. Your boss is gonna say no. You're gonna set up a zoom meeting and you're gonna get your requirements that way. So getting analyzing an issue to get the proper requirements virtually. Louis Savard I don't know if any of you have tried that. It is impossible. Louis Savard It's it's. You're right. Absolutely done. It's you. Don't get the you don't get the physical reactions right, because if I don't like something, I do this and I keep on listening to you right now. I'm rolling my eyes and I'm looking at my, you know, I'm looking at next door. I'm going, Oh my God. Right. So and you have and then I come back and I go. Yeah, right. I agree. So you don't get that. But in a room when you get somebody that's sits back and does that you can pause and say OK. Louis Savard Where are we going wrong here? I'm so really emphasizing or providing the new workforce or the current workforce upskilling with mechanisms by which you can really perform those analysis as well. It's gonna be critical. It's gonna have to happen. I mean, I could be wrong maybe in six months, a year from now, the world's gonna go OK, no more virtual everybody in person. And let's go. I don't think that's happening. There's way too much money being saved. Companies are making way too much money now. Louis Savard So anyway, just just I wanted to just put that up. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh thank you so much, Louis. We're gonna miss you as you head off to your next meeting, but these are really, really great points. Thank you. Cynthia Egbunonu Deanna. Deanna Davies I just wanted to first of all say thank you for such a healthy conversation. I just wanted to bring it back to the classroom and back to the program because we are doing our best to try. We're seeing everything that you just talked about. And so one of the things that we all try to do and I know even in our communications and stakeholder engagement, it's how do we do the body language in person? How do we do the body language online? We will always do this hybrid mode. Deanna Davies I and I think that we would be doing the students a disservice if we went completely in person and only focused on that in person. The other thing that we're noticing quite a bit is exactly what you talked about is the communication skills even in writing. Deanna Davies Umm and. Deanna Davies It is, it is so low. Deanna Davies For many, but not all, and this is the challenge that we have in this classroom and in this program, we know that we typically attract a student that already has a post secondary degree of some sort or. Deanna Davies Also a lot that have professional. Deanna Davies Umm. Experience as well. So what we tried to do is try to find that fine balance of setting those expectations up here, which is only so much time we can spend on saying, you know, could you please rewrite an e-mail for me. So we do cover that briefly, but it is I'm hearing and seeing what you're saying and it just reinforces us that we too need to make sure that we are adopting and adapting within that classroom and acknowledging that there is a true struggle. Deanna Davies For some of the younger ones, we don't seem to get the younger ones because typically they're in their mid 20s and up into the 30s. A little thing that I we do want to mention to all of you, we are seeing a shift in the demographics as well. Deanna Davies We're seeing more women coming into the program, which is lovely. So we're seeing a nice balance in gender, but we're also seeing a shift in professionals that are coming into the classroom and from other countries. They're coming from other countries with their professional life and then coming back in. Some of them don't remember when they were in school because they're just coming with that experience from their professional field, which adds to the richness of the conversation. The other thing that we're seeing, and I'm just bringing this up. Deanna Davies Briefly, I saw mental health up there. We're seeing a high high rise in mental health issues. We're also seeing a higher rise in addictions. I'm also seeing a higher rise as well in single parent. Deanna Davies And so we know that we have a daycare crisis in society right now. This is impacting our students in the Grad CERT programs I have one now that comes in and I say please don't ask anymore. Your baby is welcome in the classroom anytime. And she comes in with her baby in the classroom for every class. And her husband, when he's done his shift because it's a 3 hour, he comes to the class and gets the baby for her to finish the class. So this is true of what we are dealing with since society now post COVID. Deanna Davies And I I thank you so much for this rich conversation, because this will just help us that much more in the classroom. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah. Cynthia Egbunonu No, thank you. I I completely agree with what I am just types there for being so adaptable and you know and just even that little story that you just. Deanna Davies Yeah. Deanna Davies Yeah. Cynthia Egbunonu Share that the end there about the the woman with the child. Right. So we really keeping in mind what's happening around us and how those things can impact the students and the students experience. Right? And and given them the opportunity because you know somebody like that could decide. I'm not gonna come into the class. It's too hectic. I'm just gonna join online. But given given her that opportunity to say if you wanna come. Cynthia Egbunonu With your baby, that's amazing. That is amazing. And for the rest of the students, also not to be impacted by it, right. And to be so acceptable of their fellow, their fellow students. Right. And that's what we're seeing. Like, you know, we will jump on calls where people have sick children at home and they can't send them to daycare. So they have to be home with them. And, you know, the child needs Mommy or Daddy and. Cynthia Egbunonu You know, and maybe Mommy, your daddy is presenting and we need to be able to be OK with that and to be accepting of that so. Cynthia Egbunonu So that's great. Really, really wonderful. Any other. Any other thoughts that anybody wants to? Cynthia Egbunonu To raise or speak to anything on that, the Ana posted the picture. Anything on there that you know that you think? Cynthia Egbunonu Kind of jumped out that you. Cynthia Egbunonu There's so many things I could I could speak to on on that and there are many of them that I didn't even put in. Cynthia Egbunonu Like trusted business partner, right? Cynthia Egbunonu Umm, that's that's a that's that's a really, really good one that I think you know with the workplace of the future. Cynthia Egbunonu We need to. Cynthia Egbunonu Build connection basically and and and create those relationships where where people trust us you know and and they can they feel safe to. Cynthia Egbunonu To be themselves around us as well, and they trust our abilities. And you know that when we make decisions that we're also making the right and the best decisions right, like we have their best interests at heart as well, so. Cynthia Egbunonu Anybody else? Cynthia Egbunonu Yes, done. Daun Costa I just wanted to add in there conversation I had with the couple students when I was in on Saturday. Daun Costa Something that's top of mind for them is the. Daun Costa That cap has been removed for how much they can work so they can now work more than 20 hours. One of the students literally said. He's like it's great, but it's also awful because I feel all of this pressure to have to work as much as I can to help with tuition to, you know, all of these expenses and everything. And he's like what? I'm still struggling to balance. And he was an all too. So, you know, even more. Daun Costa Kind of going on and we're gonna. We're gonna see a lot more constraints. I think over these next couple terms now that that CAP is removed like they're my L ones right now are really struggling with like time management and assignment management like. Daun Costa I've been trying to be a little bit flexible with them, but they're really struggling like more than more than my last cohort for sure. So just something else to be aware of is there capacity is gonna be even more constrained over the next little bit? Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh thank you so much for sharing that and that's part of why I put work life balance right in there. And I remember I was one of those who chaired with like I was just like, whoo, that's amazing when you know that's. Cynthia Egbunonu When they passed that and they removed that cap. However, in the same moment I just remember going ohh my goodness like. Cynthia Egbunonu How are the students going to be able to manage? Because now? Cynthia Egbunonu They school would become less and less the like it would no longer become the priority right, because especially for many international students, their communities, families, parents have put money together to get them in. Cynthia Egbunonu And so they have this sense of responsibility to do everything they can to give back or to pay back whatever debts that their family is in, or to provide a better opportunity of life to their family back home. And what would happen is they would chase after that, which would give them, you know, the money's not necessarily the education right now, especially if they already have degrees. Right. So. Cynthia Egbunonu So finding ways as well to help get them to focus right? Cynthia Egbunonu And I don't know. I honestly don't know how how the institutions are gonna do this right without getting without getting to the point where we just pass people just for the sake of passing so that they can move on with their lives but ensuring that they are still getting the benefits. Right. So. Cynthia Egbunonu And I think, Deanna, you said that this this will be addressed in orientation. So can you maybe you wanna if you don't mind speaking a little bit more about that? Deanna Davies I don't know how it's going to be addressed, but it's going to be addressed. Deanna Davies We certainly and I know that I have had many conversations with my classroom reminding them because I have seen and I've talked to many professors as well that since this announcement, I again I was very happy to see this from an equitable perspective. But I have seen a significant change and I am hearing a big change in a shift within the classroom of attendance within the classroom of even arriving late in class because I took a shift this afternoon. Deanna Davies Umm so so there's a big shift in priority, I would agree as well Don, you know I I'm seeing more late submissions than ever in trying to find that balance of empathy versus also ensuring that we have to maintain this professional standard that you hand your assignment in late for a project. Guess what? You're gonna lose your time and your money. So. So again, it's trying to find that fine balance, but also working within the institution. Deanna Davies And some of the restrictions that we may have as well. So it is definitely an issue and I know that when when I do do the orientation openings for both Kingston and Cornwall, I will have one entire slide on there and Patrick has always been incredible to come into the classroom and he actually really focuses on that when he does his class visits. Deanna Davies I so that we know that that's got to be a priority right now. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright, awesome. Thank you. Thank you. Cynthia Egbunonu OK. Cynthia Egbunonu Any anything else before when we move over to the administrative? Cynthia Egbunonu Part again, keeping in mind that we only have a couple more. Ohh yes Veronica. Veronica Dogbegah Yes, just one minute. Uh, sorry. Less than a minute. The there's been a growing need for empathy and emotional intelligence. A lot, even in the workforce and. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah. Veronica Dogbegah The PM book also shows that like 7 has a lot of emphasis on leadership, emotional intelligence, empathy and. Veronica Dogbegah Umm. And between knowing yourself first in order to know other people, and I was glad that I I thought this class communication because we had a lot of focus on emotional intelligence and today we had a negotiation where they had different scenarios and they had to work with. And it was interesting to see how even though I gave them guidelines and things they could do, they were still able to show empathy and still get the best deal that he can. And so I just want to record the importance of emotional intelligence. Veronica Dogbegah Not just knowing other people, but also knowing yourself because team members can be a little bit, especially with remote, you know which is nice, right? Remote you can turn off your camera and just do this. But again, you don't want to get to. Veronica Dogbegah Circulate from the team because it's easy to just get angry and just you know what? Take yourself out because it's remote, right? But still being able to bring yourself back. And it's one of the things that we've talked about in Class A lot about emotional intelligence, like it's being throughout. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah. Thank you so much. I I completely agree with that. I completely agree with that and even more so. Cynthia Egbunonu No. Today in today's world. Cynthia Egbunonu Just having that. Cynthia Egbunonu Understanding is really really key because again, how do you manage the different generations? How do you manage the hybrid work? How do you manage, you know, the remote work and all of that stuff and everything that we've been talking about that stakeholder management, it requires a great deal of empathy and a great deal of EQ. Thank you. OK, so now moving on to the administrative part of the meeting. Cynthia Egbunonu So the the only item that we have on there is new business. So I will pass it over to Deanna for. Cynthia Egbunonu Some comments and some things that she wanted to share as well as part of that new business. Deanna Davies Umm I I don't think I have anything more on on new business that I haven't already covered off other than you know certainly we have. Deanna Davies A pulse on the trends we are hearing from you, the new trends and the opportunities, I love that you brought up micro credentials. Thank you so much for bringing those up. We also know that there is opportunity for this program to to be offered perhaps in a a hybrid format or an online format or a part time format or in a condensed weekend format. So those are certainly things that we continue to talk. Deanna Davies About I'm just kind of waiting for the institution to be able to say yes, this is something that we will do and we will certainly move forward on those kind of opportunities. So in regards to the new business, the only other thing is what I had already said in the presentation that we are going to be working very closely again with PMI moving towards that credential and also really enforcing for our students. I'm not sure if I mentioned this in the past. Deanna Davies Presentation, but we've been able to find some. Deanna Davies Umm, bursary money within the institution. For many of our students, and it's through the Student association to go ahead and write their cap M and some write their PMP and some now are wanting to do micro credentials. So I always encourage them every year. I think I posted at least twice a year to remind them to to go ahead and to try to acquire those funds so they can get those micro credentials also this year. Deanna Davies We have been very fortunate that I have two student positions that I'm hiring as program project coordinators to give them an some experience. Deanna Davies Their project that I'm create created is called beyond the classroom and so after now we've grown for five years. Deanna Davies I've lost track of where everybody is. I do my very best to keep in touch with as many Lumina alumni as I possibly can, but I wanna know where are you? What are you doing? I wanna know. Did you get your cap? MI know? I congratulate many, but I have no idea how many I have. We have. So that would be their project is beyond the classroom. What has this happened to project management students? They will be gathering data. They will be graphic. Deanna Davies Creating dashboards and they will be creating also a new sense of community that we can go beyond the classroom. In this program, we are already trying to do it on our social media, but we will do it even with more effort with two talented project management students that position those positions will be for 14 weeks and will start in January. Deanna Davies You're welcome. Cynthia Egbunonu What is amazing? I already love love, love, love that. Thank you so much. You're welcome. I think like I I just think back to when I came in as a new student, I was an international because I came in with my PR. But I had the international mindset. Right. And this is a kind of the the kinds of opportunities that I was looking for within the learning institution that I could try my hands on something like that. I'm learning right, because this is all new for me. Cynthia Egbunonu This is all new information and and yeah, and they were. They were not as much of that. So whenever I hear this kinds of things, I'm like, yay, that's amazing. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright, so I think that's pretty much it. Cynthia Egbunonu I don't know if anyone has anything you wanted to raise before we wrap things up. And I'm gonna go dig down the next meeting. I believe it's a May. Cynthia Egbunonu But I don't know if anybody has anything more that you wanted to. Cynthia Egbunonu To add. Veronica Dogbegah Next meeting is in February 24. Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh, thank you. I'll never mind. Cynthia Egbunonu February, OK. Cynthia Egbunonu Yeah, I was trying to find that e-mail that I'm not. Deanna Davies And trying to find it too. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright. Cynthia Egbunonu So. Cynthia Egbunonu We will definitely hunt down the the date and you know, send it out because I can't find it easily. I know it's in an e-mail from Louise. Cynthia Egbunonu Umm. But you know we'll we'll send it to to everyone so that you all have it. Cynthia Egbunonu OK, so before we wrap things up. Cynthia Egbunonu Any additional questions or comments or thoughts? Ohh there we go. Cynthia Egbunonu Spring, February 24th, 11:30 to one. Thank you. Thank you so much, Veronica. Cynthia Egbunonu Alright, no, thank you, Anne. Thank you so much everyone for your participation today. Always a pleasure. I'm done. You wanted to say something? Cynthia Egbunonu Ohh. Daun Costa No, I just wanted to say thanks. Let's good to see everybody today. Cynthia Egbunonu Right. Yes. OK. So, well, thank you so much everybody and enjoy the last five minutes of your lunch if you have that and enjoy the rest of your weekend, alright? Pete Grieve Thank you. Cynthia Egbunonu See you in February. Veronica Dogbegah Can you? Daun Costa You too. Bye folks. Pete Grieve By now. Deanna Davies Thank you. Bye bye. Veronica Dogbegah But. Cynthia Egbunonu Bye.